In this segment I'm going to look
at the greedy transition based
pausing approach to dependency pausing.
And in particular I'm going to describe
the model that's used by MaltParser,
the best known example of this framework.
So the idea of MaltParser is that maybe
we can do parsing by just making simple
greedy decisions as to how to
attach each word as it comes along.
And in particular,
to make those decisions or
use a discriminative machine
learning classifier.
So the parser does a sequence of actions,
working bottom-up,
kind of like a shift reduce parser,
if you've seen that in either CFG parsing
or in the programming language literature.
The parser has a stack which will be
written with the top to the right, and
which will start off with a ROOT symbol
on it as I introduced last time.
And then a buffer,
which is the stuff we get to look at
with the top written to the left.
And so,
that will have the input sentence on it.
And as we go along,
we'll build up a set of dependency arcs,
which starts off empty.
And we'll do this by
doing a set of actions.
This is the natural way to think of
a transition-based dependency parser.
So this is our start configuration
with our Stack the buffer and
the empty set of dependency arcs.
And so essentially our moves
are that we can shift a word
across from the buffer
onto the stack which
is like the shift operation for CFG
parsing, or we can do a reduce operation.
Now, in dependency parsing framework,
we end up with two reducer operations
depending on whether we're
taking the word on the left or
the word on the right as the head.
So, here we have word i and word j.
And if we take a word on the right
as the head, we get a left arc.
That means we're kind of creating
an arc that points like this,
which is being added to
our set of arcs here.
Or, if we do a right arc operation, we are
having a dependency that goes this way.
So on the word on the buffer is being
a dependent of the word on the stack.
Now if it's untyped dependency parsing,
there are just these two operations.
If you want to do typed dependency parsing
you also when you do this reduction
have to say what label you're
using to connect the two words.
And so that means if you have 20 labels,
you actually end up with 20
times two plus one, 41 different
actions in your dependency parse.
And you finish when you've
exhausted the buffer.
Now something to note here is
that if you have seen parsing.
This something that's slightly
unusual with this presentation here.
So normally in shift-reduced parsing,
CFGs, you first of all
put things on the stack and
the reduction is done fully on the stack.
But for the model that's being shown here,
when you are doing the reductions in
either direction, you're actually doing
a reduction with one thing that's on the
stack and one thing that's on the buffer.
That's just a convention that's
standard in what you see in
the dependency parser in literature.
The claim is that is makes it a little
bit cleaner to formulate things that way.
Though I'm not actually sure
it makes a big difference, but
I've gone with it because it's
just standardly what you see.
This is a simple way to do things,
and you can do that, but
it's not the standard thing
that people actually do.
And so I'm going to move on next to
the most common method that you see for
transition-based dependency parsers.
And let me just explain why this simple
way is a little bit problematic.
So that if you had a sentence of the sort,
Sue tried to
open the door in the cellar.
Well,what you're going to have
is that you have a dependency
from tried to open.
And as soon as you've gone
up to hear in the Import.
At least by then it's obvious that
you're going to have a dependency
between tried to open.
But if you're using the kind of three
action model of dependency parsing
I'm showing here,
you can't construct this arc immediately.
Instead because of the fact that
the door is a dependent of open and
in the cellar is a dependent of door,
that you have to construct
all of this material Before
you construct this arc here.
So the closer of
the dependencies of a dependent
have to be constructed before you
then hook it up to a higher head.
So all of these dependencies
have to be constructed first.
Well what that means is that you have
to have shifted on all of the words in
the import before you can decide
anything about this dependency.
And it's been found that having
to do that amount of look ahead,
actually makes it harder.
From machine learning as three
classifies the work well so
instead what people wanted to
do is move to be able in greedy
session Hook up local things on the right
even before you know their dependence.
And so that's what's being done in
a different way of formulating the actions
that's referred to as
arc-eager dependency parser.
For the eager dependency parser,
we have exactly the same start and
finish configurations.
And the operations are sort of
similar there's a shift operation and
there's these left arc and
right arc steps.
Though we add in one new
operation a reduce operation but
there are a number of differences
in the Subtleties of what works.
Let's look at them for a moment.
When you have the left arc operation,
it's doing the same thing of
constructing a left dependency between
the head that's in the and
the top word on the stack.
And the result is the same that we
are constructing this new dependency but
we have to add on to
it some preconditions.
So, we need to have on a precondition
that W I isn't already
a dependent of some other word because
if we allow that arc to be put in
then we get an analysis where two arrows
would be pointing to the same word.
And Precisely because of the arc-eager
character, words can already
be on the stack even though they've been
made the dependent of some other word.
The right arc operation
is a bit more different.
So for the right arc operation
our starting point is exactly
the same that we've now going to
Want to make an arrow like this.
We have the head on the stack and
the dependent at the beginning of
the buffer and we add this dependency.
But the difference is,
we then Rather than getting
rid of wj that we push it on to the stack.
So that means that we are keeping
the word on the right so
it can take it's own dependence later on.
And so that's precisely how we get
a word on the stack which has already
been declared the dependent
of some other word.
Okay, then it's the fact that we do that
necessitates this extra reduce operation.
Plus, once we've then found all
the dependents of that word, we have
to eventually get rid, of that so we can
go back to finding the pins of other words
that are higher up the syntax tree and
that's what this reduce operation does.
And the reduce operation
also has a precondition and
its precondition is,
you can only get rid of a word
from the stack if it has been made
the dependent of some other word.
So in other words, if it was
introduced in this way as the dependent
of some other word, then at some later
point you can reduce it once it's closed.
That's all a bit confusing,
let's go through a concrete example and
I think it'll make a lot more sense.
Okay, so
the sentence I'm going to work with is,
happy children like to
play with their friends.
And here's the cheat sheet of
the operations that we're going to
be able to perform.
So starting off, we start off with here
is the stack with just this root symbol.
The buffer has our sentence and
we found no dependencies.
So in this situation, we have these
four operations we could apply.
So, if we thought that happy was
the head of the whole sentence we could
immediately do a right-arc operation but
that doesn't seem right here.
What we do is we shift it onto the stack.
And then we're in this situation.
Okay, well in this situation, we do have,
the children is going to have
as it's dependent, happy.
So, the next thing we want to do is
construct a dependency of that sort.
And so, that means we're doing a left
arc operation, and in particular,
we're introducing it as
an adjectival modifier dependant.
So, when we do a left arc operation,
we add to the set of
dependencies that we found.
And then we get rid of the dependent
off our vowel stack, so
it disappears right here.
Ok, at this point, children isn't
the head of the sentence either so
we do another shift operation.
Well at this point, we're already
to do another left arch operation
because children is the subject
of like and so we introduce
this noun subject dependency and
add that to our set of dependencies.
So, A2 is now a set of two
dependencies that we've already built.
Okay, well at this point we've actually
found the head of the whole sentence.
So, like is the head
of the whole sentence.
So, that means we can connect it to
the root by doing a brighter cooperation.
So, we now add the root dependency for
the whole sentence.
And remember then for
the right arc operation, we haven't yet
found the dependence of like on the right.
And so therefore,
we're adding it into the stack
as something that still has to find
its own dependence on the right.
And indeed at this point we're going
to be able to start to do that.
because play is going to
be a dependent of like.
First of all, we have to get past to.
So, for to,
we shift to onto the stack and then to,
the infinitive marker, is going to
be a dependent of the verb play.
That's going to be another left
attach as an auxiliary modifier.
Okay, this point, we can say that like and
take it's first right
dependant like to play and so
that's done as a right attachment and so
it's getting that right attach x column.
Which is again adding in
to our set of dependencies.
Okay.
So at that point then, we're making
progress, but we've still got more to do.
So, this is what we're up to so far.
Play, and while play is also going
to take as its argument, play with.
We can do another right attach of play and
with.
And so that means,
again that with now moves onto
the step that we've attached,
we've made this dependency of play with.
But with hasn't found its arguments on
the right, so it's placed on the stack and
then we're going to be able
to find its arguments.
So, with argument is
going to be to friends.
So, before we can get to that,
we have to shift on their and
then we can introduce their as
a left arc of friends and attach it.
And remember formally that to apply
this left arc rule each time we
have to check the precondition and
the precondition is that their
hasn't been made the dependent
of any other word.
And it hadn't been so
that precondition is satisfied.
Okay, now we can do another right arc
operation where we can hook together with
and friends as the object
of the preposition.
Okay, so we're making good progress.
So, at this point we've now got
things that we've finished with.
Friends never had any, right,
doesn't have any right dependents at all.
With, we found that's only right
dependent that was friends.
Play, we found it's only right
dependent with their friends.
And at this point, we have to
start using the reduce operation.
So, we reduce off friends.
And again, remember that had
a precondition, and the precondition was
checking that friends is hooked in as a
dependent of something, and indeed it is.
We can reduce again, to get rid of with.
And we can reduce again,
to get rid of play.
Okay.
At this point, we've now got just
the period to deal with which we
say is dependent of the main verb.
So, we can introduce that also
as a right attached operation.
And so now, at this point,
the buffer is empty.
And the way we define our finish state is,
as soon as the buffer is empty,
we can stop.
You could if you want to save,
jeez, can't we just sort of reduce,
reduce to pop these things
of back to the root.
Anyway, you could have define things
like that, it wouldn't do any harm.
And actually it's unnecessary
because once your offer is empty,
you can't construct anymore dependencies.
Because each operation,
introduces a dependency,
is taking one thing from the stack and
one thing from the buffer and
that there's no way in
this formulation for
things to reappear in the buffer once
they've been moved to the stack.
So, we know that we'd done and
we found a complete set of dependencies
which is you have to hear a kind
of work back up to my list, but
you make a settable
dependencies we've introduced.
Okay so that's the model
of how the parser operates
as doing these operations step by step.
But at each step there, there were
multiple things that could have been done.
It could have chosen to shift what could
have chosen to make it left arc or
a right arc.
And if it chooses to make a left arc or a
right arc, it has to label the dependency
that introduce us with one
of many dependency labels.
So, how do you do that?
Well the way that stands is by using
some form of discriminative classifier.
Support vector machines, SVM's have
been most commonly used in practice, but
it could equally be another kind of
discriminatory classifier such as a maxent
classifier.
And so these classifiers
are choosing from a set of moves.
So, if it's an untyped dependency parser
Four moves that [INAUDIBLE] configuration,
but if it's typed, then there
are twice the number of dependency
types plus 2 parsers to choose from.
It's a finite set of parsers
you're choosing from.
So what are the features that you
use in the dependency parser?
Well, you definitely use What's
the word on top of the stack?
What's its part of speech?
What's the first word int he buffer?
That will let you choose
operations like shifting or
the kind of dependency label to choose.
But those aren't the only operations
in good dependency pauses,
because remember we had
other things that we
knew could be important like
the length of the dependency arc.
That's being proposed or
knowing what's intervening between them.
And also, you might want to
know [INAUDIBLE] about for
these words that are at
the top of the stack.
Well, what tendence do they
already have that will
influence how likely you are to
get other dependencies for them.
So you can put all of these things as
features into a discriminative classifier,
kind of like we saw when looking
at max end classifiers before.
So in the simplest form of
transition-based dependency parser,
there is hence absolutely no search
whatsoever that at each point you're
making a greedy decision, that you've
got the stack and buffer in some state.
You run a classifier.
It decides the most likely next action and
you just take it.
And that's been an approach
that's been strongly pursued in
the MaltParser framework to see how
can a job you can do in this manner by
having really good classifiers that
are good at choosing the next move.
I mean,
of course you don't have to do that.
You could do some kind of beam search
to explore different possibilities.
But the rather stunning result is that
you can do this form of completely
greedy transition based parsing and
do really well.
You can build dependency parsers
that work almost as well
as the best lexicalized
probabilistic context free grammars.
I'm doing the kind of
complete CKY parsing style
search of all possibilities that we
saw previously where we're taking it.
And we're converting the LPCFGs
into dependency representations
to evaluate them.
I'll say a bit more of about
evaluation in a moment.
Well, if it was just that they were
close to the state of the art that would
be good, but the dramatic reason why
people really like these parses.
And they've become extremely widely used,
is that because they're these
greedy transition based parses
that they're super, super fast.
So this style of pauses and work way,
way faster than any kind of dynamic
program parser [INAUDIBLE] to shooing
every possible alternative analysis.
How do we evaluate dependency parser?
The standard way to do
that is just by accuracy.
The sense for each word,
we going to choose something as its ahead.
We can just say, how many those
decisions that did we get right.
Let's look at an example of that.
So here's the simple
sentence we're going to use.
She saw the video lecture.
So commonly,
we'll number each word of the sentence
including giving a number of zero to
this root that we add to the same tense.
So in this analysis this is showing
you the correct dependencies and
we can lengthen out the chart
where we have for each word.
We have its own word number and
then we say which word index
is the head of that word.
And in particular for the word that's
the head of the whole sentence saw We're
saying the word of index of it's governor
is zero, which is this root symbol.
And then additionally if we want to we
can also label the dependencies and
that happens over here.
Okay, so then we build a parser such as
a transition-based dependency parse are.
And the parse are traced to parse
the sentence and it gets some results.
And if you look over here,
it starts off well.
It says that saw is
the root of this sentence.
And that she is the subject of saw,
it actually makes a bit
of a boo boo after that.
It says that she saw something lecturing.
Saw has as its dependent
lecture as a verb,
and the video is being analyzed as
the subject of the verb lecture.
Well, if we do that and
evaluate accuracy, how does it work out?
So for accuracy, we're taking
the number of correct dependencies
over the total number of dependencies.
And there are two ways we can do that.
One is ignoring the labels for
the grammatic relations, so
that standardly gets referred to
as un labeled attachments score.
And so if you look at that
well doing pretty well,
so this one is correct,this
one is correct.
This one is correct, this one is correct
and so
the only place were different Word is
chosen as the governor for
a word is right here.
So here what it should be is that
the is a dependent of lecture,
but in this wrong analysis.
We say that the is a dependent of video.
However, if we look at
the labeled accuracy score,
this wrong parse isn't doing so well.
So it gets this one right, and
then gets this one right, but
everything else it gets wrong.
It gets them wrong for two reasons.
So, for the case of the, it chooses the
wrong word to be have the sit governor,
but for video and lecture, although it
chooses the right word to be the governor.
It chooses the wrong function.
So because it's taking the lecture,
lecture is a verb that is
a compliment clause of c.
That's wrong because it should
be a direct object, and
then it's analyzing video as the subject
of lecture and that's wrong as well.
Really we should have this compound
noun structure here and so
we only gain two out of five right or 40%.
Here are a couple of numbers just to give
your sense of how well people do with
dependency parsers.
So if you want to look more at
dependency parse evaluation,
one good source of information
was that in the CoNLL conference,
the conference on natural language
learning that was held in 2006.
The shared task that was used was to
do dependency parsing over a collection
of 13 different languages and
many dependency parsers took part.
And you can see scores.
So if you look at the result for
MALT parser in that competition,
which was evaluated primarily
through this label attachment score.
The scores range from for
the best languages it got about 92% of
the dependencies right, and for the worst
languages, it got about 65% right.
It was a huge range, so some languages I
think are intrinsically harder than other.
But I think there are also issues that the
quality of some of the treebanks is much
better than others and
that's also reflected in the numbers.
Just trying to connect up
with what we saw earlier for
constituency parsing, let me also
give a few numbers from English.
So these are all dependency numbers, but
this time we're looking at unlabeled
attachment score since we can always
get unlabeled attachments from
a constituency parser that has a notion of
heads where it won't be producing labels.
So if we convert the output of the
Charniak and Collins models of generative
constituency parsing,
both lexicalized PCFG parsers,
that their accuracy on
dependencies untyped is about 92%.
So Yamada and Matsumoto's parser is
another transition-based parser,
kind of like the MaltParser, and so it
does a bit worse than that, about 90.4%.
Here's a different style
of dependency parser.
This is the minimum spanning tree
graph-based style dependency parser.
It did 91.5%, almost,
almost as well as these.
But part people have gone on
doing research on this, and
partly because dependency parsers
are often much simpler, there's
been quite a lot of work in looking at
combinations of dependency parsers.
And so for example, here's one
dependency parser from 2006 where it's
then getting results that are a little
bit above the two constituency parsers.
Now all of these results
are even a few years out of date.
There hasn't been a recent careful
comparison of constituency and
dependency parsers.
But I think big picture what you
should take away is that greedy
transition-based dependency
parsers by themselves are perhaps
a little bit worse in performance
than dynamic programmed PCFG parsers.
But if so,
it's only a very little bit, and
their other performance characteristics
make them extremely, extremely attractive.
Before finishing this presentation of
dependency parsing techniques, there's
just one more issue I should mention,
which is the issue of projectivity.
So if you take dependencies
from a CFG tree using heads,
you have to get a projective
dependency parse.
And what that means is that your
dependencies can be regarded as something
in which everything nests together,
just like constituency nests together,
without there being any
crossing dependencies.
But most theories of dependency
grammar allow crossing
dependency as a non-projective structures.
And indeed, you can't get the semantics
of certain constructions right
without these non-projective dependencies.
So let's look at an example of that.
So here's this sentence, Who did
Bill buy the coffee from yesterday?
So most of the dependencies nest together
giving us a kind of tree structure.
But if we then want to hook up who,
then what we want to say is,
well, who is the object of
this preposition here, from.
And so if we put in its dependency,
this dependency has to cross
these two other dependencies,
and so this is a non-projective
dependency structure.
And so the question then is
how do we handle this kind of
non-projectivity in parsing methods?
In particular,
the transition-based arc-eager algorithm
I presented only builds
projective dependency trees.
And so this has been an active area
of investigation in the dependency
literature.
I'm not going to cover it in detail here,
but
I'll just briefly mention the range of
possible analyses that have been pursued.
So one possibility is just to declare
defeat on non-projective arcs.
For languages like English,
there are quite few non-projective arcs,
basically for the same reason that context
free grammars work well for English,
because by and
large everything is tree structured.
You can work at getting almost everything
right with a non-projective parser.
A second possibility is to use
a dependency formalism which only has
projective representations.
You'll see one of those
in the next segment.
And that's kind of analogous to what
context-free grammars actually represent,
because a context-free grammar also
doesn't represent any connections between
words that can't be done
inside a tree structure.
And so effectively in something like
the tree bank representations we saw for
phase structure grammar, they just fail to
represent connections between words that
aren't within a tree representation.
They just hook the word in somewhere
higher up in the structure.
But there are other methods
that people have pursued.
A third method people have used
is to do projective parsing and
then run some kind of postprocessor
that perhaps picks up on classes
of labels which indicate we're
hooking this onto our analysis but
really it should be moved somewhere else.
And then to work out how to
resolve the non-projective links.
Well, something else you can
do is you can actually add
extra operations to the transition-based
dependency parser model
that can handle at least the common
cases of non-projectivity, that is,
things like question words being moved
to the front of the sentence in English.
Or finally,
you can move to a parsing method which
just doesn't assume projectivity.
So in particular,
the minimum spanning tree-based,
graph-based parsing methods don't
make any assumptions of projectivity,
and you can directly build
non-projective structures.
So in a way this is appealing, but
in a way it seems like it's possibly
going to a too general situation,
because you're going from the situation
of only allowing projective
structures to making no special
requirement of projective structures.
And if you look at natural languages, what
you find is that they're mostly projective
and there are only particular
constructions like things like WH movement
that moves question words to the beginning
of a sentence or various kinds of right
displacements, like afterthoughts,
that create non-projectivity.
So in the MSTParser,
all of that when you should and
shouldn't have non-projectivity
is in the space of the machine
learning classifier of deciding which
dependencies are likely to construct.
Okay, I hope that's given you a concrete
sense of how transition-based
dependency parsers are implemented and
so maybe you feel like you could
go off and implement one of those.